# Terminology

## Here you'll find definitions of certain words used throughout the wiki

### Composition/Compositions
An audio file that contains the necessary metadata to be played back by the *Glyph Composer*.

### Dependencies
Dependencies are other programs which are needed so the Glyph Tools can do their jobs.

### Glyph Tools location
The directory where you extracted the Glyph Tools in step 2 of the wiki ([Downloading the Glyph Tools](./2_Downloading%20Glyph%20Tools.md)).

### Label Track
In Audacity&reg; you can have multiple Tracks in one project. A named [\[Label\]](#label) can be placed on this Track to mark points of interest of an audio. More info [here](https://manual.audacityteam.org/man/label_tracks.html).

### Label
A Label is placed on a [\[Label Track\]](#label-track). A Label has a starting and ending position and can be named. We differentiate between a [\[Point Label\]](#point-label) and a [\[Region Label\]](#region-label).

### Point Label
A Point Label is a [\[Label\]](#label) that has the *same* starting and ending position. See [here](https://manual.audacityteam.org/man/label_tracks.html#Point_labels_and_region_labels).

### Region Label
A Region Label is a [\[Label\]](#label) that has a *different* starting and ending position. See [here](https://manual.audacityteam.org/man/label_tracks.html#Point_labels_and_region_labels).

### Glyph(s)
The Glyphs are the whole light segments on the back of the phones. In contrast stand the [\[Zones\]](#zones). E.g.: The Nothing Phone (1) has 5 Glyphs.

### Zone(s)
A Zone is one individually addressable light region. One [\[Glyph\]](#glyphs) can be one Zone or it can have multiple Zones inside. E.g.: The Nothing Phone (1) has 8 Zones in the *USB Line [\[Glyph\]](#glyphs)*.

### Glyph Format
This is a logic and naming scheme for the [\[Labels\]](#label). It explains in great detail on how to name your [\[Labels\]](#label) in the Audacity&reg; project so the [\[GlyphTranslator\]](#glyphtranslator) can understand what you want to do with the [\[Glyphs\]](#glyphs)/[\[Zones\]](#zones).  
It consists of four parts each separated by a dash (`-`):
1. [\[glyphId\]](#glyphid)
2. [\[lightLevelFrom\]](#lightlevelfrom)
3. [\[lightLevelTo\]](#lightlevelto)
4. [\[interpolationMode\]](#interpolationmode)

#### glyphId
Is the first part of the [\[Glyph Format\]](#glyph-format) and tells the Glyph Tools which [\[Glyph\]](#glyphs)/[\[Zone\]](#zones) should be controlled. This is different for every device supported by the tools - see [Explaining the Glyph Format](./4_First%20Composition/1_Explaining%20the%20Glyph%20Format.md#the-four-sections-explained-in-detail) for the detailed explanation.

#### lightLevelFrom
Is the second part of the [\[Glyph Format\]](#glyph-format) and tells the Glyph Tools how bright (0% to 100%) the, with the [\[glyphId\]](#glyphid) selected, [\[Glyph\]](#glyphs)/[\[Zone\]](#zones) should be at the **start** of the [\[Label\]](#label).

#### lightLevelTo
Is the third part of the [\[Glyph Format\]](#glyph-format) and tells the Glyph Tools how bright (0% to 100%) the, with the [\[glyphId\]](#glyphid) selected, [\[Glyph\]](#glyphs)/[\[Zone\]](#zones) should be at the **end** of the [\[Label\]](#label).

#### interpolationMode
Is the fourth part of the [\[Glyph Format\]](#glyph-format) and tells the Glyph Tools how the brightness level should be interpolated (from [\[lightLevelFrom\]](#lightlevelfrom) to [\[lightLevelTo\]](#lightlevelto)) for the, with the [\[glyphId\]](#glyphid) selected, [\[Glyph\]](#glyphs)/[\[Zone\]](#zones) in the time given by the difference of the start and the end of the [\[Label\]](#label)  - see [Explaining the Glyph Format](./4_First%20Composition/1_Explaining%20the%20Glyph%20Format.md#the-four-sections-explained-in-detail) for the detailed explanation.

### GlyphTranslator
The GlyphTranslator (GlyphTranslator.py) is one of the many scripts that are part of the Glyph Tools. It takes in your exported [\[Labels\]](#label) and spits out the [\[NGlyph File\]](#nglyph-file). It is also possible to supply it with a [\[Watermark File\]](#watermark-file).

### NGlyph File
This is an itermediate (json) file which is generated by the [\[GlyphTranslator\]](#glyphtranslator) and consumed by the [\[GlyphModder\]](#glyphmodder).  
See [The NGlyph File Format](./9_The%20NGlyph%20File%20Format.md) for a technical documentation.

### Watermark File
A simple text file (UTF-8 encoded) containing a watermark of the [\[composition\]](#compositioncompositions) creator. It is optionally consumbed by the [\[GlyphTranslator\]](#glyphtranslator).  
The content of this file will be saved inside the [\[NGlyph File\]](#nglyph-file) and will also be saved as metadata to the [\[composition\]](#compositioncompositions).

### GlyphModder
The GlyphModder (GlyphModder.py) is one of the many scripts that are part of the Glyph Tools. It takes in your [\[NGlyph File\]](#nglyph-file) and your exported audio file and spits out the finished [\[composition\]](#compositioncompositions).

### Label File
A text file that contains all the exported [\[Labels\]](#label) from an Audacity&reg; project. More info [here](https://manual.audacityteam.org/man/importing_and_exporting_labels.html).
